------------------
NOTES
------------------

How is virtue both general to all humans and specific to others

Aristotle's argument

Defining the human essence ( what it is that we all share )
	Abstracts away what makes humans different from any other thing
		we exist
		we are alive
		we move
		we reason
	to define something, ask what that thing does

	Reasoning above all else is uniquely human
	
What makes something good?
	The ability of a person to reason and do something exceptionally well
	a virtuous general wins battles and a good artist makes beautiful art

aristotle's definitiion extends to the intrinsic good of all people
	finding the single thing a person wants, to the point that everything else falls away
		good because the thing is pure, not so we can get something else
			get wealth to flaunt or status to rule = bad


From an Aristotelian point of view, virtue is defined by the human essence. Aristotle argues that
all humans share a distinct action from the rest of nature, the ability to reason and think critically.
Although all humans share this common value, what defines an individual as good or virtuous is their
ability to use this attribute in a specific craft or function. Each person shares the human essence, but
its use is unique. This dichotomy of the man is the base of Aristotle's grappling with the question of
how virtue can be general to all humans yet situationally specific.

Aristotle begins to grapple with the duality of virtue, how it can be general and specific at the same time,
by defining what it means to be human. Aristotle states "we take the human function to be a kind 
of life [that] uses activity and actions of the soul that involve reason;" (618). This notion that what makes
human ultimately distinct is the allusion to some "soul" or a part of the human essence that can perform thought
unlike any other plant, animal or object. This from an Aristotelian point of view ultimately separates humans
from all other things and in turn, defines what it is to be human. Aristotle concedes however, that other
form of though exists. Yet, he retorts saying "the function of the excellent [and virtuous] man is to 
[reason] well and finely" (618). Although other animals are able to think in a rudimentary sense, only
man can consider their actions, plan their thoughts and reflect on their decisions. This, Aristotle says
makes a man great. Ultimately, the argument is constructed to sew mankind with a common thread, each person
has the capability to think critically and use this talent to execute their function well and finely, which will
bring them a state of eudaimonia, or a state of pleasure or flourishing.

Each person shares the ability to think critically, however not every person will reason in the same fashion. As Arisotle argues, the virtue and happiness is the ability to perform what is human exceptionally well. In this
definition, each person has a different induvidual definition of greatness or excellence. <insert quote about
generalship and artists or whatever>


Two Types of Virtues
5. “The division between virtue accords with this difference. For some virtues are called virtues of thought, others virtues of character; wisdom, comprehension, and prudence are called virtues of thought, generosity and temperance virtues of character. For when we speak of someone’s character we do not say that he is wise or has good comprehension, but that his is gentle or temperate. And yet we praise the wise person for his state, and the states that are praiseworthy are the ones we call virtues” (622)


